* Introduce Nick 
  - APG - Plane Tales
  - Virgin 340
  - RAF, OT 172, Phantom, Tornado, 
* Flew F-18 with the RAAF
  - how did that come about?
  - you're partially Australian?
  - These were A models, right? 
    When was this in the evolution of the Hornet?
  - Which a/c did the Hornets replace?
    
-- Chat about your experience, quirks and you did listen to Jerry. --

* Two seater used in Australia for missions?
  Fuel reduction problem.

* Were you there when the Hornets got delivered? 
  - How fast did they come in? 
  - Dribble.  
  - Who got to fly?
  - What did the other guys fly?

	When our squadron, No 77, got our first Hornets they only arrived in a
	dribble and, of course, everyone wanted to play with them.  The first
	one was in continual demand and all the pilots and engineers were vying
	with each other for play time.  In the end the Boss took all the pilots
	away to Melbourne where the Aussie Hornets were being assembled, so that
	the engineers could have some quality time playing with the airframe.

* Carbon Fibre was new. These days it is considered a challenge
  in airliners with maintenance and stuff. 
  
  - How was it back then?

	It used to amuse me that when we first got the aircraft, nobody was sure
	how durable the carbon fibre would be when those big booted engineers
	started stomping around on top.  They made them all pull soft covers
	onto their work boots so they wouldn’t scratch.  It was a bit like
	having a brand new car… after a couple of years and the tears had been
	shed over the first little dink or scratch, you don’t really worry any
	more!

  - Carbon and Faraday? Lightning?

	One of our guys pulled up at night off a bombing range, quite fast,
	straight into a thunderstorm full of hail! Every slight imperfection
	where the edges of a carbon fibre panel protruded into the slipstream
	the top layers were striped off wrecking a large proportion of the
	airframe. Plastic aircraft are great but they have disadvantages.  I got
	hit by lightning once and it blew the back corners of my elevons apart
	so they  resembled big paint brushes with strands of carbon waving on
	the slipstream!

* HOTAS - how hard to learn and retain?

	HOTAS was all well and good but with over 20 different selections that
	could be made from the throttle alone, I always found it difficult
	remembering how to select stuff if I'd not used recently or when doing a
	mission type that I hadn't done for a while. We used to joke that if we
	took 2 weeks leave we had to learn to fly it all over again!

* Cockpit design and layout
 
  - Upfront controller

	I hope things have improved but when flying close air support one of the
	hardest things was trying to type in the string of numbers for the
	target's lat/long that the forward air controller passed into the Up
	Front Controller so we could attack... it all whilst doing 540 kts at
	150 ft organising a 4 ship to hit the target on time, getting the right
	weapons selected and the attack profile sorted.  
 
  - Upfront Panel arm in the air
  - Missing the "just a navigator" :-)

	Whats more, that keyboard was high… just below the HUD and so your
	arm was suspended up in the air with nothing to rest on.  In the
	turbulence of overland low level flying or when pulling G it was so
	easy to miss a key and put the wrong number in!  Nightmare!  That
	and night low level ship strikes were always tough for a single seat
	jet... task saturation was a real danger and for some missions I
	missed not having a back seater. 

  - Master Arm

	Master Arm and master modes nearby, flown 1000 miles, tanked and in the
	pop so reach for the Master Arm and it was easy to accidentally change
	modes from GA to NAV when reaching for the MA and ruin an attack. 
	Rowey, an old friend with me on 77 Sqn said it was easy to cock things
	up and have to reselect and redesignate the target meanwhile throwing
	your tanks off by mistake (joking)!

	F18 guys converting to the F35 strike fighter are finding it a bit
	difficult as the F35 has many of the same kind of switches but they
	all do different things!

  - Dropping programs
	
	Easy to get the dropping programs mixed up dropping retards on a
	slick programme ending up with a bomb that lands about 450 ft short.

  - Fuel Indicators
    
    Fuel gauges small and easy to ignore plus easy to move the bingo bug
    so it doesn’t come on… leading to some embarrassing moments.
	

* A2A refuelling? Harder than in the Phantom?

	Air to Air refuelling was a bit of a nightmare and the drogue used
	to love to whip right around the fuselage banging on everything (AOA
	vanes and pitot tubes) it could as it went.
	
* No GPS at the time. INS.
 
  - Maps out of date :-)

	Going back a bit but... in Australia we had problems when updating
	the inertial navigation system from ground features because
	sometimes the Nav error got worse, not better!  We discovered that
	the maps of Australia were quite old and when we measured the
	lat/long of a feature on the map, it wasn't actually where it really
	was and if we used it to update the kit we actually introduced an
	extra error! Probably not a problem nowadays with GPS!

* Ladder 
  - did you actually use it?
  - how else could you get down?

  I always thought the ladder was crap. In the Phantom it lowered itself
  as we climbed out. The Hornet needed someone to lower it from under
  the LEX and if they didn't know how we used to have to jump down 10 ft
  off the wing or slide down a wing tank… usually landing in a heap! 
  The steps were also out of sight when climbing down, and you had to
  feel around with your foot to find them.  A friend who did a US Navy
  exchange told me of a guy who did a back somersault onto his head,
  luckily still protected by his helmet, when climbed off the Lex
  assuming someone had lowered his steps and they hadn’t.

* Moving Map?

  - Film.
  - You've actually reached the edge of of the world.
  
	On our early models the moving map was actually a roll of film
	projected up into the back of the central TV tab and overlayed with
	electronic symbology. It was hilarious and a bit disconcerting when
	we flew off the edge of the map and didn't know where we were... we
	felt a bit like early sailors exploring the unknown and I was always
	waiting for a picture of a sea monster come up!

* Radar
  
  - ground mapping to help landing 
  - inofficial instrument approach - allowed?

	The F18 had a great air to ground mapping radar which used doppler
	beam sharpening, comparing the radial velocity of features on the
	ground to build a 3D picture of the earth's surface. We even used it
	to designate the start of the runway and then allowed the symbology
	in the HUD to guide us down to it. That gave us the chance to do an
	unofficial instrument approach in bad weather! The only problem was
	that because DBS needed a radial velocity it didn't work within 7°
	of the noise so as soon as we pointed at the runway we relied on the
	INS not to drift... something it loved to do!

* Sim visuals?
  not moving

	The simulator visuals were very realistic. Sometimes, at the end of
	a session, the instructor would freeze the box when you were upside
	down and then tell you to get out! It used to freak me out as it
	really felt like I would fall out of the cockpit! 😳

* AUS is large. Transits? Boredom?

	On transits when we were bored we used to lock up to civil airliners
	and shoot them down and then find trucks on the ground to lock to
	and bomb them... the bombing computer used to compute a solution for
	moving vehicles, it even gave us their speed along the highways. I
	often wondered if it would set of any speed trap radar detectors the
	drivers might have!
	
* High AoA 
  - Departure?

  - Did the software work reliably?

	Early models prone to departure, particularly the 2 seaters. Some
	guys sat in a spinning tub well below 10,000ft and nearly brought
	the farm.  In one combat mission a mate tried to pull a rolling guns
	jink into an attacking A4 using lots of rudder and the F18 departed
	snapping through 270 in pitch and 180 in roll until it was pointing
	vertically down and he went from 540 to 60 knots in a blink.  The A4
	guy asked if he was ok… after recovering he said sure, but I bet you
	couldn’t track us could you?  Sometimes, however, it was sluggish to
	roll at high AOA and would sometimes roll the wrong way.  Much
	improved after various flight control software upgrades.

* Hard to feel your speed, the noise was constant  above 250 knots.

* Oxygen

	The oxygen system was Navy but had no flow indication so it wasn’t
	easy to spot a failure.  Tell hypoxia story.  Follow up with fatal
	hypoxia event that the RAAF had story ending with… a wingman was
	sent off to find guy who was hypoxic and was chasing him in burner
	disappearing into a dow when his leader told him to drop his tank to
	save fuel… but remember the jettison limits of 550 knots and M0.9. 
	The reply came back, well it’s 580 knots and 1.1 now!

* Cat

	First Cat shot, Rowdy forgot to put his feet flat on the floor and
	left his toes on the rudder pedals.  During the cat shot his legs
	flew up and pushing them back down he put brakes on.  Burst both
	main tyres as he launched and left the deck smothered in blue smoke.
	 Diverted, got new tyres and eventually headed back to his carrier. 
	Arrived back descending down below a low cloud layer and forgot to
	slow to pattern speed, arriving overhead at 600ft 540 knots.  He had
	to do a full break over the carrier to get his speed back to pattern
	speed for his first attempt at a carrier landing!
	
* So, summing up ... did you like the Hornet?
  
* After that you flew the F.3, right?	
	
